[ this post discusses family death/funerals ]

--

i made it back after my weekend motorcycle trip and now i'm thinking about
funerals because i might be going to one soon.

--

i have never been to a funeral.

both of my grandfathers are dead; one of them lived long enough to know that i
exist. i was the only one of his grandchildren that he knew about, because the
rest of them are too young.

i visited his grave for the first time when i was 27. i realized i had a lot i
wanted to say, and that i didn't know how to say any of it, so instead, i
knealt in front of it and cried until i had cried enough.

before i walked away, my baby sister-cousin took my hand and said, 'wait, let's
bow to him.' we held hands and bowed simultaneously, breathiing slowly and
letting the space build between us and the gravestone. 'once more,' she
whispered while we rose, and we bowed again.

--

my mother didn't go to his funeral, either, because she had only just managed to
get a green card and couldn't easily leave the country on short notice. i think
some of her relatives have not yet forgiven her for it. she was his oldest
child.

--

18 years after his death, one of my relatives brought me a camera of his. when
i opened it, there was still film inside. i developed what was not damaged, and
looked at the last photographs he had taken. they showed a family outing that
excluded my mother, which meant that it was probably after she left the
country.

later, i showed my grandmother those photographs, and she remembered the day
when it happened. instead of being happy to see them, she seemed sad to have to
look at photographs for when she was already old and wrinkled, because she
wished she had more photographs from her youth. 'you can take so many pictures
of yourself now,' she said. 'don't waste your youth. make sure you take a lot
of pictures of yourself, and smile, and send them to me.'

it always frustrated me that if i brought her photographs i was proud of
making, she'd push them aside because they weren't of my smiling face in front
of national monuments. why should i be taking so many pictures of just trees
and rocks all the time?

--

this funeral i might be attending is not one of my family's, but it is close
enough. i think it's going to be hard for other people.

i feel okay.
