cfls take a little time to warm up to their full brightness; i don't always
want to switch on my desk lamp at 3am. sometimes, i think i have a better
chance at getting to sleep properly if i keep it out. other times, i want to
see my hands when i type, instead of watching little grey letters creep their
way across a dark screen as if they were not my own.

--

i always feel a visceral sense of shame when i cannot sleep, and worry that
i'll be caught up. i have memories spanning over a decade of my parents
catching me at the computer screen far after we all ought to have gone to bed.
sometimes, my father would present to me evidence of my late night keysmashing
in the form of a list of traffic that passed through the modem just before
dawn, daring me to contradict his accusations.

later in life, years after i had moved out of the house and proven myself a
capable, self-sufficient adult, my mother would call me when my father was in
one of his worse bouts of insomnia, laughing it off, then asking 'you don't
have sleep problems, right?' it was more of a demand than a question, at least
as accusational as it was worried. with a tone like that, would i ever say yes?

i recall a day when i was a child, and did not sleep well through the night.
blearily, i sat awake in my room while the sun was creeping up into a hot
midwestern summer day, knowing somehow that it would be bad if i went
downstairs and rustled around for food. my mother had taken to listening in on
me through the door, sometimes peeking through the cracks for activity, and
later on would quiz me about what i was doing, as if trying to detect signs of
lying; i knew this. that day, she ask me later if i could account for my time
in the morning. it was a game of whether or not i knew how to tell time, count
minutes, self-inspect.

there was a two hour blank period, during which i claimed to be awake but did
not have any activities i could describe. 'i guess i was just lying in bed,
staring at the ceiling,' i eventually declared.

'did you hear that?' she said to my father, laughing. what a silly child. 'two
hours lying in bed, staring at the ceiling!'

--

my mother used to tell me, 'when you first wake up in the morning, don't just
lie there. the moment you open your eyes, you should spring to your feet and
get ready for the day.'

'don't waste time.'

'when you go to bed at night, you should think about what you did during the
day and decide if you were productive.'

it's 3:30am and i don't really have a schedule for the next several days, and i
can't sleep. i'm thinking about all the other times i couldn't sleep. i'm
thinking about all the times i found my mother lying on the couch after a long
day of work, vegging out in front of the television. i'm thinking about how she
keeps telling me i should get a better job so i can retire early and keep her
company by the ocean, before she gets too old to enjoy it.

i don't know what any of this means. my eyes hurt from staring at this screen.
