<!---you insomniac.--->

on april 16th, i filled an egg carton with good dirt and put four seeds into
each pod. i labeled one side 'brocc' and the other side 'sprouts', for broccoli
and brussel's sprouts, respectively; a dozen pods, 24 seeds of each type.

a week later, each pod had sprouted at least one curious leaf; several
sprouted all four. one sprouted something unrecognizeable. i smiled.

over the next month, i prepared a space for them in the yard. i turned up sod,
mixed in compost from the previous year's worth of yard and kitchen waste,
marked off rows, put up chicken wire to deter ground-walking munchers.

yesterday, may 22nd, i had a bad scare after looking at my sprouts; all of
them fell flat from dehydration. over the weekend, i had forgotten to give
them attention, because i could hardly take care of myself. seedlings need a
little bit of attention every day, and i had let them down.

i watered them apologetically and looked to the sky, hoping that the weather
would break soon and let me introduce them to the earth.

today, i put my hands in the soil and smelled the richness of a month's worth
of spring rain, microorganic work, and aspirations. it was time; i pulled the
egg carton out and inspected it. a few of them had responded to my apology.

i only had enough plots prepared today for six plantings, so i took the three
best candidates from each side. the pods with multiple viable seedlings will
eventually be thinned to one; from 48 seeds, six plants will be coddled into
maturity. i made little pits with a trowel, then carefully pressed each puck
of dirt and seedling into the indentations.

dirt responds best to hands. i put my hands against the cool soil and felt the
density of each mound, pressing drainage channels and slowly massaging bunkers
around each seedling to shelter them. 'thank you,' i whispered to each one i
chose. 'thank you for working hard. thank you for pressing upwards. here is
the earth and there is the sky; you are now between them and a part of them.
do your best. i love you.'

those cells have never touched the earth and have never seen the sun. they sit
there now, poking out of the ground like periscopes. their roots will burrow
further than i will ever see, and draw matter from the soil to create more of
themselves to give to the sky.

if i am worthy, i will eat some of them in the future.
